#    What really happens when you type https://www.google.com

well, to start with. I was recently wondering how my phone and computer could help me get tons of information. I want by simply putting their keyword on the search engine tap. It was neither a magic nor a miracle. It was one of the best thing human kind invented and could made the world just a peace of village. 
Here is what’s going on underneath.
1.DNS request
oh wait! What? Yeah a domain name system first resolves the human readable piece of string to a machine readable numbers where a “.” is embedded in between. The domain name system(DNS) simply matches a the stringed names with the IP addresses associated and then returns back to our browser so that It It can directly knock the door of a real target computer. DNS lookup table, now a days gets so large and hence is handled by a number of DNS servers across the globe.
2.TCP/IP
Well, knowing an IP address of a target device is not enough to get the information we need. There should then be a talk between the client agent(browser) and the server. This communication is handled by a set of protocol called TCP/IP. This protocol have a set of rules on how data is communicated and transferred across a network.
3. Firewall
There are a number of digital thieves all over the internet looking for credential information such as credit card number, password and so on. To protect a business or organization that have a number of computers, we might need to use a network-level firewall while firewall can also exist in host-level. Some browsers also do have a firewall feature that filters what to surf and what not to surf. Firewalls are an ideal tool to protect the communication between a private network and public internet.
4. HTTPS/SSL
you might be wondering how information is transferred between clients in peer-to-peer network or between client and server (master-slave) computer architecture. This is where the use of HTTP comes in hand. HTTP(Hyper Text Transfer Protocol) is a world wide conventional Protocol that enables computers over Internet to transfer a web data such as HTML, video, Audio, Gifs and textual files. A Hacker can break to the communion channel and then have access to the data being in transmission. This bring us to the idea of HTTPS( Hyper Text Transfer Protocol secure). It is a secured version of HTTP. It uses a pair of keys that uses to encrypt and decrypt the data packets. Even if an attacker breaks into the transmission channel, It won’t decipher the encrypted message as it can only be decrypted with a private key. SSL – Secure Socket Layer – also helps to secure the connection between hosts in the socket network layer.
5. Load-balancer
Load-balancer?? hmm… yeah as it’s name indicates balances a Load of servers. It would be really easy to bring an example here:
Google, for example has a number of servers on different locations as only one server can’t store those tons of information. Therefore there is a dedicated server that looks for a relatively free server while a request is sent to the load-balancer server and then  redirect the request to the relatively free web server. Load-balancers are powered with different algorithms. The most frequent algorithm is  the Round Robin Algorithm.
Now everything seems to flow good. But where do all the requests are sent to?

6. Web server
every static pages appearing on the our screen are stored on Hardware called a web server. Web servers received a request from clients and send back the asked resource to the hosts. The sources can be HTML, CSS, JavaScript, media files and much more. Web servers can also be a software that is operating on servers.  Apache and Nginx are some of the frequently used web servers now a days.
7. Application server
Application server is system software that lie between the operating system of a computer and another external resources such as DataBase. For instance JBoss, Glassfish etc.
8. Database
Here is another information and data keeping tool that made digital life so easy. DB(database) is a collection of organized and structured information and data easy made for retrieval and manipulation using Database management system(DBMS). DBMS enables us to store data in systematic way so that it can be used effectively and efficiently. Relational DB use rows and columns to store data. Standard Query Language (SQL) is the language we use for data manipulation in the Databases.

